---
title: Lest We Forget
layout: post
---
In two days, American will remember the events of September 11, 2001.  I say "remember" because this isn't something we will celebrate.  It's hard to believe that 20 years has passed since that day.  It is also a very personal and poignant day for me.

I served in the U.S. Army from 1989 to 2001.  I was deployed to the Middle East in the fall of 1990 as part of Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm.  My unit, the 9th Combat Engineer Battalion, was attached to the famed First Infantry Division (the Big Red One).  We were part of XII Corps, and participated in General Schwarzkopf famous "Hail Mary" plan, where the entire Corps moved 150 miles west and then north to the Iraqi border prior to the ground invasion.  This move was called Operation Desert Saber where VII Corps moved into Iraqi and north-west in a massive sweeping maneuver.  This is also where we engaged several tank divisions of the Republican Guard in the Battle of 73 Easting, the largest tank battle since WWII.

After the war, I returned to Germany, and eventually served in several other interesting locations, including Fort Carson, Colorado; Fort Jackson, South Carolina; and the Republic of Korea.  My last duty station was at the Pentagon.  After I got out of the Army, my first job was working as a contractor for the Army.  I worked for a company based in Northern Virginia on a contract at U.S. Army Material Command headquarters in Alexandria, just a few miles south of the Pentagon. In my role as an information security engineer, I still had many dealings with folks at the Pentagon, and frequently attended meetings in the “Five Sided Puzzle Palace."

On the morning of September 11, 2001, I had planned to meet some folks I used to work with at the Pentagon. This was an ad-hoc meeting, basically whenever I showed up we would meet.  I worked a few miles away, and could take the Metro (subway) from Alexandria to the Pentagon. However on that morning, I had done something very different for my typical morning commute from Stafford (were we lived about 30 miles south of DC/Northern Virginia). I had “slugged” to work.

Commuter ride sharing, or "slugging" as is is colloquially known, was started in the Northern Virginia and Washington D.C. metro area. You park your car in a commuter lot, get in line with a bunch of other people, and wait for a driver to show up (also someone going to work in DC).  Then two strangers get in the car of another stranger, and all three of you take the High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) 3 (which requires three people in the car) lane up I-95 into Washington DC. On the morning of September 11, 2001, I slugged to work for the first time.  We were dropped off in the south parking lot of the Pentagon.

I distinctly remember standing in the parking lot, debating whether to go ahead and go into the Pentagon for this ad-hoc meeting, or take the subway down to my office, get some coffee, check email, and come back up later. Coffee won me over, and this was a life-changing decision. Had I gone into the Pentagon, I would have been meeting in the very section that was struck when terrorist crashed American Airlines flight 77 into the building at 9:37 EDT.  I was very familiar with the Pentagon and still knew several people who worked there.  I actually enjoyed walking around what was essentially a big museum, so it is also fairly likely I may have been taking a stroll around the outermost E-ring to visit with someone or just look at the artwork.  Had I been doing that, I probably wouldn't be here.  Fortunately, the friends I was planning on visiting were not injured, but I did know several people who died at the Pentagon on September 11, 2001.  

Proverbs 19:21 says, “Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the Lord that will stand.” I often tell people, God was watching out for me that day. I sincerely believe this. As I look back over the events of my life, I see many examples where one slightly different decision could have changed my life (or even ended my life) in a dramatic way.  September 11, 2001 is one such example I will never forget.
 
